giving you a sneak peek this morning
inside the home design show here at
Landsdowne park and another one of the
experts you will find right here on the
design and decor stage and exhibition
hall is susan phillips her company is
spotlight on decor she is a staging
expert in fact she has written this book
on aging and it's the students the
seductive power of home staging thanks
for joining us this morning you're very
welcome it's over here well and so what
we're talking about staging how
productive is this in the sale of the
home Oh vital why not today okay it's
very vital in this particular case here
we had a home where the the bathroom
which is one of the five most important
rooms in the home was in in a very dated
and ugly state and the homeowner
actually warned me before I went in
you're going to see something really
ugly and the rest of the home was really
quite nice until we got into the
bathroom okay let's take a look at that
before picture just so our viewers can
get an idea of what we're talking about
now we're talking even a carpeted
bathroom the but yes it was carpeted the
sink was so close to the bathtub that
you had to hold your breath to get to
the toilet which is not a good idea and
we also had a window in it that was
boarded up because there was an
extension put on the other side which is
the master bedroom so they had boarded
up the window and they had put a poster
in the window so we decided I went in
and thought okay do we have a budget not
very much very very little a couple
hundred dollars and we have very little
time so we had a couple of things
against it so we thought okay we have to
work with what we have this is one of
the things that was against you so this
is this is the board that was on the
wall it's just um yeah say do you want
to see the other side a bit now so this
is this was the the wall around the
entire bathroom this entire bathroom
right and you can't rip that down that's
not in the budget no yeah that's not
that's not in the budget so what we did
was we took the wart the window area and
i have i'm working with an artist LC
campbell who does all of the artwork for
my staging and she came up with this
ingenious painting that actually mimics
the the bluebells in the war board she
makes this look
really retro very young and then we what
we did was we bought accessories in the
form of attack towels and shower curtain
and a shower curtain that brought all of
the different colors all of the colors
together we didn't want to focus on the
blue we wanted to focus on the the more
neutral shades mhm so this is this is
some was a very successful successful
home staging and everybody thought the
battle was really really chic yeah and
the household in 11 days a year the
bathroom like that and you would have
been hard-pressed to find a buyer with
you know with oh you're working with a
wet and carpeted we'd we did put in a
new sink a little narrow sink and we
took out that carpet and we put in a
vinyl floor so this was with a
two-hundred-dollar bachelor basically
that's not just for the the renovations
that arrives now I mean you mentioned
bathrooms one of the key rooms that sell
homes the kitchen is is probably not one
yes bathrooms are number two and then we
have the dining room and the living room
the dining room is strange because
people don't often use their dining room
they like to think that they will and so
they like a nice dining room with a
chandelier and nice a lot of room for
moving the the chairs around the table
and then we and the last one of course
is the master bedroom we want to see the
master bedroom is is really everyone's
there a private suite there get away now
there are so many different things in
this book that will take you through
color choices that's right he color
choices to attract buyers and not send
them back out the the seven steps in the
book you can apply to a backyard a
garage a powder room the the master
bedroom the kitchen so every single step
applies and it's lighting and its
accessories the color but most
importantly the most important number
one deal breaker is if the house is not
maintained so you've got actually you
don't hide any of the problems in the
home right now it says to hear there are
10 improvements you can do for under
$100 give me two of them
the handles on the kitchen cupboards
hardware has been one the faucets as
well yeah I've got really ugly faucets
and old taps yeah that's another one I
paint is probably one in the best well
pays rights right the no-brainer if
there's no gain yeah that's right okay
well this book is fantastic now whether
you're looking to stage your home right
now I mean you don't have to be in the
market to selling your home right now
you can just be thinking about these
things if you're thinking of selling in
the next few years that's right if
between now and five years time you
should be thinking about how you're
getting things going and get your not
ready that's right so no weeks before
you love ya last minute rush yeah that's
right the seductive power of home
staging we've got three copies of this
book to give away right now send us an
email a morning contest at a TV CA the
first three in the Three Keener's we'll
get a copy of this book and we'll get
you well on your way to get in your home
marketable out there and getting some
dollars back fantastic thank you very
much Susan thank you all right Liam back
to you